many homeowners are dancing the night
away as their homes continue to
appreciate in value this has allowed
them to use their home as a bank account
and pull money out when needed the
equity portion of their homes hasn't
grown and instead people are left
holding on to more liabilities applying
dangerous levels of pressure onto their
backs you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you I am your
host Warren Buffett and today we are
going to talk about housing prices and I
want to get into so many other issues
that I'll just go through very quickly
let's begin with this four major US
cities ringed the housing bubble alarm
now remember this isn't me saying this
although when you read this it sounds a
lot like the money GPS home prices in
Denver Houston Miami in Washington DC
metro area are now considered overvalued
so I'll talk about that more in a moment
why they say this some previously hot
markets such as San Fran and New York
City a triple an area metropolitan area
are cooling down now when you talk about
cooling down you're coming off of a
level that's so extremely high that
cooling down is still overvalued so I
want to mention that low mortgage rates
are keeping track so or keeping the
market affordable from a monthly
perspective but affordability will
likely become a much bigger challenge in
the coming years and what they're saying
is look yes you're paying a low monthly
fee because of interest rates being so
low historically low but as they are
increased you are going to have very big
problems and that is the truth so
further along in this article it talks
about how they value this and it is to
determine if a market is overvalued
CoreLogic compares current prices to
their long-run sustainable levels which
are supported by local economic
fundamentals like disposable income okay
disposable income versus the price of
that
particular home I think that is the best
indicator for any housing market if you
want to know the number one indicator
that's it how much people earn how much
their house costs it's a very simple
fact if people take 40 years to pay it
off and they don't have any other
disposable income because that's taking
away from everything they have
that's not affordable it's barely
affordable but people go underwater as a
result and ultimately the banks will
keep lending there will always be
alternative mortgage lenders and
everyone in Canada believes that the
housing prices will continue to escalate
it is a fact talk about the people in
New York City for example how they will
strongly disagree with you if you
believe otherwise now does that mean
that housing prices can't continue to
rise absolutely not they can continue
forever but that key is interest rates
I've gotten to this many times I'll just
move on all right an overvalued market
is one in which home prices are at least
10 percent higher than that level the
rest of the top 10 markets are
considered add value but none or
undervalued prices are higher in all of
them compared with a year ago there's no
end in sight of the escalation here now
they make the claim that housing is too
expensive for most people yet we have
seen that contained to expand so what's
happening well a lot of foreign money is
coming in that's the fact but I do
believe that many people have stretched
themselves to the maximum and I think
that this could present itself to be a
problem in the near future regardless of
what happens with interest rates because
you can only expand the bubble so far it
has to pop eventually if you increase
interest rates then of course that would
be all it needs that is the linchpin
so while mortgage a low mortgage rate
keeping the market affordable from
monthly perspective and gets into what I
was talking about earlier in there let
me show you Canadian real estate okay
this is right now while the sales have
declined because of this miniscule
increase in interest rates the public
feels that let's just hold off for now
let's just wait and let's see what's
going to happen but previous to that it
was rising and rising and rising
consistently and you can see that with
this chart right here let's look at this
I mean we're talking about June 2016 up
in the present and month after month
after month the prices were increasing
many people have earned a lot because of
this and the aggregate composite MLS HPI
rose by fifteen percent year over year
through June 2017 but most recently what
we have seen is that the sales are down
and I believe the only reason the sales
are down right now is not because that
little bit of interest rates made all
that difference it's just that people
are finally stopping and saying whoa
let's just relax for a moment here you
know let's just see what happens and
finally you know that some sense of
reality
bringing coming to the market I hope it
continues
I hope the housing prices drop by at
least 50%
I don't think that's going to happen but
we can definitely see that that would
bring it down to a more fair value I
think it's still not accurate in terms
of the housing prices to your income
ratios but it would certainly help a lot
of people to make their homes more
affordable and they don't have to live
in condos when they could really live in
larger places and they'd be able to
afford a lot more they would be able to
spend a lot more money elsewhere they
wouldn't have to put all of their money
into their home you would see more
people doing renovations on their home
you would see less people taking the
equity out of there
because they needed to buy other things
that's what's happening here
okay now I have very short period of
time to cover a lot of articles so let
me get into this right here as you look
at this the feds about to try something
that has almost always ended in
recession the Fed tried to reduce its
balance sheet six times in the past five
times it ended in a recession kermy
we're at four point five trillion
dollars on the Fed balance sheet they
say they want to wind it back they can't
successfully do that without causing a
recession but that's what they claim
they want to do I don't know what's
going to happen all I can tell you is
that if they do in fact pull back on
this balance sheet they're going to
cause turmoil they can do it they
absolutely can but not with boats and
pain and I do believe that there will be
a major deflation that does occur that
deflation will eventually start to
snowball it would get worse and worse
and then the central bank's will come
out and they will have to print so that
balance sheet could easily reverse but
you may not have the Federal Reserve
doing the printing at first maybe the
Bank of Japan starts to ramp up the
printing presses to an incredible level
that money finds its way back around to
the United States buying up all the debt
maybe that buys them some time I don't
know what's going to happen like I said
but this is definitely coming to at
least the public's eyes so we'll see you
probably have seen this but former
sheriff joe arpaio has been indicted
here and unfortunately what has happened
to him is that you know he's being put
away for up to six months that's a
sentence possible sentencing here and
[Music]
what I had seen with him initially and
this is years ago the investigation with
the whole fake Obama certificate that
birth certificate and that really upset
a lot of those who are part of the
establishment so that was a big crowd
and then more recently he was getting
into a lot of the issues with
immigration not allowing people to
basically stay if they if they were
illegally entering the country and so
they were getting kicked out under his
authority there's more to the story than
that but I think that's why the
establishment doesn't like him because
he was going against the grain and
anybody who does that you know finds
their way out the door
or even worse ADA is the perfect
employee always courteous are we
learning and as she says always at work
24/7 365 days a year we are talking
about one of Sweden's biggest banks
rolling out a customer service
representative that uses artificial
intelligence and that's what's happening
here they're saying no we're not trying
to get rid of people working and
everything else we just want to make the
customer relations better yes we've been
closing a lot of branches yes we're
going to a cashless society but that
isn't what this is about this is about
helping the customer and many people are
unsatisfied with the customer service
that they've been receiving here that's
according to the polls and they say that
this is going to improve that well
perhaps that is the case I don't believe
that people necessarily want to deal
with some sort of artificial
intelligence robot at least at this time
we'll see how that happens as the years
go on I just see this as more and more
jobs being lost in the retail industry
in the service industry this here is the
implementation of Robo advisors so there
are no longer a need to have a financial
advisor because it's all being done by
robots automation computer programs they
program the statistics they program the
information directly into these computer
programs websites and things and then
what really does that financial adviser
do I mean they simply put you in based
on very very few criteria they click a
few buttons on the screen why can't you
just
do that yourself that's basically what's
happening here and ultimately they have
some oversight by humans but not really
that's really what the robo-advisor is
about you can see this it's a time line
as the different companies all the big
boys are getting into this starting from
2010 and on the present day they're all
getting into it they're all going to be
replacing jobs as the advisors are aging
then you tend to not need those other
people to replace them a simple simple
matter of fact this here is a different
look at some of the same information the
Robo scorecard
just you know familiar companies like
fidelity and others who have gotten into
this many Americans are too drugged out
to work as a chart at the bottom shows
didn't work in the previous year because
of illness or disability and those
numbers continue to increase both men
and women a slew of reports find a fresh
reason for the chronic inability of
American companies to fill skilled jobs
not a lack of skills and hence training
and education crisis but a surfeit of
drug abuse per New York Times
now drugs pharmaceutical drugs different
types of drugs we're looking at people
who are depressed they have anxiety they
have any different amount of things that
are happening to them and they are
either on some sort of leave of absence
they have claiming disability they're
getting some sort of social assistance
programs here and this is a trend that
has been increasing over the years I do
believe that it will persist and it will
become a much bigger problem in the
future as conditions get worse now right
now everybody's on hi imagined when
they're on a low just imagine that
nothing in this regard nothing got
better during these years so I
this comes down it just hits people down
further to the floor and they're unable
to get up psychologists say more and
more young people are entitled and
essentially what this article gets into
is that more and more people they want
more things and particularly the younger
generation they demand more they want
more and ultimately their entitlements
are going to be a problem for them
because the future doesn't hold much
promise for them unfortunately that's
just the way it is the housing has
become too expensive they can't afford
it the jobs don't pay as well as they
used to compared to the prices of
everything that exists today you have
every level of this not looking good for
this generation and it is quite
unfortunate and this year I talked about
this before covered it and it actually
happened here the microchipping of
individual employees at a company they
said basically look if you want in it's
volunteer you can get yourself chipped
and then that would be able to pay at
the vending machine and you'd be able to
open up doors you know log into your
computer with it and this and that and
it's so wonderful this is a concern for
me because individuals are opting into a
system that allows them to basically
give up their freedom there's personal
sovereignty when you have a microchip
inside of you you go beyond everything I
mean we're always having our cell phones
and we have CCTV watching us everywhere
we go the NSA is spying on us of
listening to me talking to you right now
it goes on but putting a chip in your
body I mean that just goes way beyond
everything so that's happening good luck
to those people this right here last but
not least billowing black sewer
discharge in Niagara Falls alarms
businesses and tourists so apparently
the mated mist
was going to nightfalls all of a sudden
they see this black stuff they don't
know what it was it's thinking maybe it
was an oil leak it just kept spreading
and spreading turns out can you believe
this this sewage
is allowed to discharge at regular
intervals they had the proper paperwork
they do this regularly and they
discharge sewage into the environment at
regular intervals that's what our
government does to protect us can you
believe it they did all sorts of things
good luck so you have this Niagara Falls
you have the same thing that just
occurred recently in Lake Ontario
they released raw sewage into Lake
Ontario that's the drinking water for
countless people all right they had
leaks nuclear reactors leaking into Lake
Ontario and they said it's okay don't
worry about it it's only a small amount
no need to no need to even clean it up
to attempt to clean it up that's fine
great this is why I always tell people
that it is important to have your own
supply of water your own filtration at
least it is essential so I'll leave off
with that message if you found this
video informative please give you a
thumbs up last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my books
weps and my new release global economic
collapse even more informative in the
first book I get into real estate as a
whole chapter in there so you definitely
want to check that out in my latest
release I get into how to basically earn
income I do talk about real estate in
there as well I get into becoming
self-sufficient and talk about water
actually in that as well having your own
supply filters everything else in there
so it's a familiar topics in there in
these two books but they get into
different things as well if you want to
flip through them go over to Amazon
links are in the description below take
care